---
  title: "Udalum Naanum - I and my body"
  date: 2020-07-30T17:30:00+05:30
  draft: true
---

Weird title, eh? It should be because our body is weird, isn't it? Actually, it is not. I'm going to tell you something interesting(I hope :p) about our human body in this blog. Our body is evolving since I don't know maybe half a million years ago or even more than that. They say our body is a temple. Temple is where we worship and keep it clean all the time. Are we doing that with our bodies? Probably no. 

With our bodies, our eating habits are also evolving. Are we conscious about that? What we eat makes a lot of difference in our day to day life. You must've heard someone saying eating fruits in the morning gives them an extra boost throughout the day. Have you asked why? It's not just the fiber or the nutrition you get from them but how this nutrition reacts with your body is what actually matters. Let's take electrolyte. Electrolytes are substances that dissolve in a solvent and acquire electrical conductivity. Some of the electrolytes that we have in our body are sodium, potassium, chloride, etc., and some of the electrolyte-rich foods are banana, watermelon, coconut water, etc., Now what do they do in our body? They are responsible for controlling our involuntary muscles! Regulates the fluids in our bodies. Most of us must have felt this involuntary twitching in our muscles sometimes. It's nothing but an imbalance in our electrolyte level. So when you eat electrolyte-rich food in the morning your blood flow will be smooth and your heart will pump at ease!

Most of us must've followed at least one of the myriad diets and checked how many calories we eat every day. How many of us actually know what's a calorie dude? A Calorie is a unit of energy and it denotes how much heat energy is required to increase the temperature of one gram of water by one degree celsius. We need energy for our body to function normally and live healthily. Our body basically burns the food we eat, produces, and uses the necessary energy by a process called metabolism. Now when there is more energy in our body to burn but you are not burning it you'll get fat. Also, when you eat empty calorie food(like junks, sodas which have no nutrition) you'll become unhealthy. So stop just looking at the calories and start looking into the details. Have a diversified diet that contains all the nutrients. Take a pen and paper write down what all the foods you like or you know is healthy and you want to eat it. Then open your browser and start researching what the food actually contains, you'll be surprised! You may ask if I did all these? Yes I did and I lost 15 kilos in 3 months but after a year I'm back to my o(the panda from The KungFu Panda) form. The whole motive of writing this blog is to motivate me to go back to my Mantis form. 

I'll tell you what I did. The first thing is to find the TDEE for your body. TDEE is an acronym for Total Daily Energy Expenditure. It gives you how many calories you need per day approximately. There are plenty of calculators to calculate your TDEE on the internet. After that, use any mobile application to keep a track of your calorie intake every day. I used HealthifyMe and I used to just record whatever I eat, drink. Everything. It took me a couple of weeks to understand how my eating habits were and after around two and a half weeks I started controlling my diet. In fact, after around 10 days I almost knew how many calories my food has kind of a muscle memory. I never ate anything after 7PM, mostly it was 6PM. I did intermittent fasting twice to thrice in a week. One thing I did not do was any physical exercise, and man I regret that. After seeing the results, I was very happy and I just totally ignored the workout part. That made me very unhealthy later. So the advice is to work out a little according to your body and how you want your muscles. Consistent is the key, say no to that one chocolate, say no to that one dinner outside. Whenever you feel like having a cheat meal or a cheat day ask yourself why you started this? That'll keep you going.

Being said that, take care of your body, your mind will be taken care of.

Happy dieting!
